<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>溝口研究室 発表論文リスト</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=shift_jis" />
    <meta content="ontology,ontological engineering,knowledge engineering" name="Keywords" />
    <meta content="オントロジー,オントロジー工学,知識工学" name="Keywords" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src='script.js'></script>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>溝口研 発表論文リスト</h1>
	<p>Last modified: <!-- #BeginDate format:Ja2 -->2005年10月5日 <!-- #EndDate --></p>
	<hr />

<table border="0" cellspacing="5">
  <tr valign="top"> 
    <td> <ul>
        <li><a href="#2005">2005</a></li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#2004">2004</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#2003">2003</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#2002">2002</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#2001">2001</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#2000">2000</a> </li>
		</ul></td>
    <td> <ul>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1999">1999</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1998">1998</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1997">1997</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1996">1996</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1995">1995</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1994">1994</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1993">1993</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1992">1992</a> </li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1991">1991</a></li>
        <li><a href="./all-publications-jp.html#1985">1985-1990</a></li>
    </ul></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<hr />

<h3><script type="text/javascript">blink_topic_sentence();</script></h3>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: ナノテク材料技術の知識の構造化プロジェクトにおけるオントロジーの利用<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: 古崎晃司，來村徳信，渡邉英一，山形尚子，溝口理一郎<br />
 <b>Reference: </b>人工知能学会 第5回セマンティックウェブとオントロジー研究会 研究会資料, SIG-SWO-A303-03, 2004.<br />
 <a href="kozaki/SWONT2004kozaki_final.pdf">Article (PDF, 1412KB)</a>
</p>

<p>
  <b>Title</b>: 知識構造化のためのナノテク材料の特性と機能に関するオントロジー的考察<br />
  <b>Authors</b>: 垂見晋也，古崎晃司，來村徳信，渡邉英一，溝口理一郎<br />
  <b>Reference: </b>人工知能学会 第18回全国大会論文集, 1G3-02, 2004.<br />
  <a href="tarumi/JSAI04_tarumi_05.pdf">Article (PDF, 392KB)</a>
</p>

<hr />
<a name="2005" id="2005"></a><h3><i>2005</i></h3>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: デバイスオントロジーに基づくシグナル伝達パスウェイの統一的記述枠組みの開発<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: 高井貴子（東京大学）, 溝口理一郎<br />
 <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会論文誌, Vol.20 No.6 pp.406-416. <br />
 <a href="documents/C-O4CD.pdf">Article (PDF, 617 KB)</a>
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: 形式オントロジーと順序ソート論理の拡張<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: <a href="http://research.nii.ac.jp/~kaneiwa/">兼岩　憲(NII)</a>, 溝口理一郎<br />
 <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会論文誌, Vol.20 No.6 pp.387-395. <br />
 <a href="documents/O491.pdf">Article (PDF, 123 KB)</a>
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: 機能分解木記述による設備異常の原因究明とその解決事例<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: 柏瀬雅一，篠木秀次，布瀬雅義，溝口理一郎，來村徳信<br />
 <b>Reference</b>: 設備管理学会誌, Vol. 16, No. 4, pp.164-170, 2005. <br />
 <a href="./miz/kashiwase2004.pdf">Article (PDF, 869 KB)</a>
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: オントロジー理論に基づく情報教育目標の体系的記述<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: 笠井俊信，山口晴久，永野和男，溝口理一郎<br />
 <b>Reference: </b>電子情報通信学会論文誌，Vol.J88-D-I, No.1, pp.3-15, 2005.<br />
 <a href="documents/ieice04final.pdf">Article (PDF, 4202KB)</a>
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: What Do You Mean by to Help Learning of Metacognition?<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: Michiko KAYASHIMA, Akiko INABA and Riichiro MIZOGUCHI<br />
 <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the 12th Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED2005), pp. 346-353, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, July 18-22, 2005.<br />
 <a href="documents/AIED05-Kaya.pdf">Article (PDF, 94KB) </a>
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: Goal Transition Model and Its Application for Supporting Teachers based on Ontologies<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: Toshinobu KASAI, Haruhisa YAMAGUCHI, Kazuo NAGANO and Riichiro MIZOGUCHI<br />
 <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the 12th Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED2005), pp. 330-337, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, July 18-22, 2005.<br />
 <a href="documents/AIED05-Kasai.pdf">Article (PDF, 1.10MB) </a>
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: Making Learning Design Standards Work with an Ontology of Educational Theories<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: Valery PSYCHE, Jacqueline BOURDEAU, Roger NKAMBOU, Riichiro MIZOGUCHI<br />
 <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of the 12th Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED2005), pp.539-546, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, July 18-22, 2005.<br />
 <a href="documents/Psyche-al_AIED05.pdf">Article (PDF, 332KB) </a>
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: An Ontological Model of Device Function and its Deployment for Engineering Knowledge Sharing<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: Kitamura, Y., Koji, Y., Mizoguchi R.,<br />
 <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of the First Workshop FOMI 2005 - Formal Ontologies Meet Industry, Castelnuovo del Garda (VR), Italy, June 9-10, 2005, CD-ROM<br />
 <a href="kita/documents/kita-fomi05.pdf">Article (PDF, 523KB) </a>
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: Functional Metadata Schema for Engineering Knowledge Management<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: Yoshinobu Kitamura, Naoya Washio, Yusuke Koji and Riichiro Mizoguchi,<br />
 <b>Reference:</b> In Proc. of the Workshop on Activities on Semantic Web Technologies in Japan, CD-ROM, The 14th International World Wide Web Conference (WWW2005), May 10, 2005, Chiba, Japan.<br />
 <a href="documents/kita-www05.pdf">Article (PDF, 770KB) </a>
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title:</b> Ontology-based Transformation from an Extended Functional Model to FMEA<br />
 <b>Authors:</b>Koji, Y., Kitamura, Y., Mizoguchi, R..<br />
 <b>Reference:</b>In Proc. of the 15th International Conference on Engineering Design (ICED '05), Melbourne, Australia, 15-18 August 2005, CD-ROM, 264.81 (Abstract: pp.323-324), 2005.
</p>

<p>
 <b>Title</b>: An Order-Sorted Quantified Modal Logic for Meta-Ontology<br />
 <b>Authors</b>: <a href="http://research.nii.ac.jp/~kaneiwa/">Kaneiwa, K.</a> &amp; Mizoguchi, R. <br />
 <b>Reference: </b>Proceedings of the International Conference on Automated Reasoning with Analytic Tableaux and <br />
 Related Methods (TABLEAUX 2005), Koblenz, Germany, pp. 169-184, LNCS 3702, 2005. Springer-Verlag<br />
 <a href="documents/tableaux05.pdf">Article (PDF, 194KB)</a>
</p>

<hr />
<a name="2004" id="2004"></a><h3><i>2004</i></h3>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: 工学ドメインオントロジー<br />

  <b>Author: </b>來村徳信<br />

  <b>Reference: </b> 人工知能学会誌，Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 179-186, 2004年3月<br />

  <a href="kita/kita-jsai04-engont.pdf">Article</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: Ontology-based Functional-Knowledge Modeling Methodology and its Deployment<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kitamura, Y., Mizoguchi, R., <br />

  <b>Reference: </b> Proc. of the 14th International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management EKAW 2004, pp. 99-115, October 2004. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/%7Ekita/pub/kita-ekaw04.pdf">Article</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: Coping with Unintended Behavior of Users and Products: Ontological Modelling of Product Functionality and Use <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Wilfred van der Vegte, Yoshinobu Kitamura, Yusuke Koji, Riichiro Mizoguchi <br />

  <b>Reference: </b> Proceedings of CIE 2004: ASME 2004 Design Engineering Technical Conferences and Computers in Engineering Conference, September 28-October 2, 2004, Salt Lake City, Utah, DETC2004-57720, 2004.</p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: Le role de l'ingenierie ontologique dans le domaine des EIAH<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  Translated by: <a href="http://sticef.univ-lemans.fr/num/vol2004/mizoguchi-06/sticef_2004_mizoguchi_06.htm#auteurs">Jacqueline 

  Bourdeau </a>Centre de recherche LICEF, Tele-universite, Montreal<br />

  <b>Reference: </b> Sciences et Technologies de l´Information et de la Communication pour l´Education et la Formation, Vol.11, 2004.<br />

  <a href="http://sticef.univ-lemans.fr/num/vol2004/mizoguchi-06/sticef_2004_mizoguchi_06.htm">Article</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: Towards Modeling Design Rationale of Supplementary Functions in Conceptual Design<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Y. Koji, Y, Kitamura and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of Tools and Methods of Competitive Engineering - TMCE 2004 (TMCE2004), pp. 117-130, Lausanne, Switzerland, April. 13-17, 2004.<br />

  <a href="koji/tmce%202004(koji).pdf">Article (PDF, KB)</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: Learning Design Palette: An Ontology-aware Authoring System for Learning Design<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: A. Inaba and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of International Conference on Computers in Education (ICCE2004), Melbourne, Australia, Nov. 30-Dec. 3, (to appear) 2004.<br />

  <a href="./ina/ina_icce04.pdf">Article (PDF, 546 KB)</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: EASE: Evolutional Authoring Support Environment<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: L. Aroyo, A. Inaba, L. Soldatova, and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of the seventh International Conference on Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS2004), Alagoas, Brazil, Aug. 30-Sep. 3, (to appear) 2004.<br />

  <a href="./lora/ITS2004-aroyo-etal.pdf">Article (PDF, 315 KB)</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: Learners' Roles and Predictable Educational Benefits in Collaborative Learning - An Ontological Approach to Support Design and Analysis of CSCL<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: A. Inaba and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of the seventh International Conference on Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS2004), Alagoas, Brazil, Aug. 30-Sep. 3, (to appear) 2004.<br />

  <a href="./ina/ina_its04.pdf">Article (PDF, 207 KB)</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: Towards Shared Understanding of Metacognitive Skill and Facilitating Its Development <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: M. Kayashima, A. Inaba, and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of the seventh International Conference on Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS2004), Alagoas, Brazil, Aug. 30-Sep. 3, (to appear) 2004.<br />

  <a href="./ina/kaya_its04.pdf">Article (PDF, 207 KB)</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: What is Metacognitive Skill? - Collaborative Learning Strategy to Facilitate Development of Metacognitive Skill<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: M. Kayashima, A. Inaba, and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of the sixteenth World Conference on Educational Mutimedia, Hypermedia &amp; Telecommunications (ED-MEDIA 2004), Lugano, Switzerland, June 21-26, pp. 2660-2665, 2004.<br />

  <a href="./ina/kaya_EDMEDIA04.pdf">Article (PDF, 99 KB)</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: Development of a System that Provides Teachers with Useful Resources from Various Viewpoints Based on Ontology<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: T. Kasai, H. Yamaguchi, K. Nagano, and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of the sixteenth World Conference on Educational Mutimedia, Hypermedia &amp; Telecommunications (ED-MEDIA 2004), Lugano, Switzerland, June 21-26, pp. 3349-3356, 2004. <br />

  <a href="./kasai/kasai-EDMEDIA04.pdf">Article (PDF, 3,256 KB)</a></p>

<p>

  <b>Title</b>: Leaner Model Ontology and leaner Model Agent<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Weiqin Chen and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Cognitive Support for Learning - Imagining the Unknown, P. Kommers, Ed., IOS Press, pp.189-200, 2004.<br />

  <a href="./miz/LMontology.pdf">Article (PDF, 146 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Deployment of an Ontological Framework of Functional Design Knowledge<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Y. Kitamura, M. Kashiwase, M. Fuse, R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Advanced Engineering Informatics, Vol. 18, Issue 2, pp. 115-127, 

  2004.<br />

  <a href="./kita/kita-aei04.pdf">Article (Preprint version. PDF, 514KB)</a> (For 

  published version, please visit <a href="http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/journal/14740346">the 

  journal site </a>) </p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Ontology-based systematization of functional knowledge,<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kitamura, Y., Mizoguchi, R.,<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Journal of Engineering Design, Taylor &amp; Francis, Vol. 

  15, Number 4, pp. 327-351, August, 2004.<br />

  <a href="kita/kita-jed04.pdf">Article (Preprint version, PDF, 548KB</a>) (For 

  published version, please visit <a href="http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/titles/09544828.asp">the 

  journal site</a>).</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Tutorial on ontological engineering - Part 3: Advanced course 

  of ontological engineering<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Mizoguchi, R. <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: New Generation Computing, OhmSha&amp;Springer, Vol.22, No.2, 

  2004(to appear)<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Part3V3.pdf"> Article (PDF, 

  446KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Tutorial on ontological engineering - Part 2: Ontology development, 

  tools and languages<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Mizoguchi, R. <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: New Generation Computing, OhmSha&amp;Springer, Vol.22, No.1, 

  pp.61-96, 2004<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Part2V3.pdf"> Article (PDF, 

  799KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Ontological Knowledge Base Reasoning with Sort-Hierarchy and 

  Rigidity<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: <a href="http://research.nii.ac.jp/~kaneiwa/">Kaneiwa, K.</a> &amp; Mizoguchi, R. 

  <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the Ninth International Conference on the Principles 

  of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning (<a 

href="http://magic.it.uts.edu.au/KR2004/">KR2004</a>), Canada, 2004(to appear).<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/KR04KaneiwaK.pdf">Article (PDF, 183KB)</a></p>

<hr />

<a name="2003" id="2003"></a> 

<h3><i>2003</i></h3>

<p><b>Title</b>: 対象モデリングの視点から見た知識表現<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 溝口理一郎，池田満，來村徳信<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会誌, Vol.18, No.2, pp.183-192,2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/ailec7.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  140KB)</a> </p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 協調学習におけるインタラクション分析支援システム<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 稲葉晶子，大久保亮二，池田満，溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 情報処理学会論文誌, vol.44, no.11, pp. 2617-2627, 2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/ipsj03.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  1.75MB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: オントロジーアウェアな学習コンテンツ設計環境<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 林 雄介，山崎龍太郎，池田 満，溝口理一郎.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 情報処理学会論文誌, Vol. 44, No. 1, pp. 195-208, 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/ipsj-iDesigner-hayashi.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/ipsj-iDesigner-hayashi.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 945KB)</a> <br />
</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Ontology Engineering Environments<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Handbook on Ontologies, S. Staab and R. Studer (editors), 

  (2003) pp. 275-295.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/HandBookMiz3.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 816KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Document Exchange Model for Augmenting Added Value of B2B Collaboration<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: K. Hayashi and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of Fifth International Conference on Electric Commerce, 

  pp. 459-465, Pittsburgh, U.S.A., Sep 30 - Oct 3, 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/ICED_CR_submit_hayashi_3.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 78KB)</a> </p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Tutorial on ontological engineering - Part 1: Introduction to 

  Ontological Engineering <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Mizoguchi, R. <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: New Generation Computing, OhmSha&amp;Springer, Vol.21, No.4, 

  pp.365-384, 2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Part1-pdf2.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 298KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Cell Signaling Networks Ontology <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Takako Takai-Igarashi and Riichiro Mizoguchi <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: <a href="http://www.bioinfo.de/isb/">In Silico Biol.</a> 4, 

  0008 (2003)<br />

  <a href="http://www.bioinfo.de/isb/2003/04/0008/">Article </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Testing of understanding by use of an ontology methodology <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Soldatova, L., &amp; Mizoguchi, R. <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of Joint Workshop of Cognition and Learning, Berlin, 

  pp.202-205. 2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/larisa/TU.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  72KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Ontology of tests <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Soldatova, L., &amp; Mizoguchi, R. <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. Computers and Advanced Technology in Education, Greece, 

  pp.175-180. 2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/larisa/402-115.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 193KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Generation of test based on test ontology <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Soldatova, L., &amp; Mizoguchi, R. <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. ICCE03 (International Conference on Computers in Education), 

  Hong Kong, pp. 1147-1150. 2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/larisa/icce6864.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 58KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Management of Dependency between Two or More Ontologies in an 

  Environment for Distributed Development<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Sunagawa, E., Kozaki, K., Kitamura, Y. &amp; Mizoguchi,, R. 

  <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the International Workshop on Semantic Web 

  Foundations and Application Technologies (SWAFT), Nara, Japan, March 12, 2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/sunagawa/Management%20of%20Dependency%20between%20Two%20or%20More%20Ontologies%20in%20an%20Environment%20for%20Distributed%20Development.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 250KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Process-aware Authoring of Web-based Educational Systems<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: <a href="http://wwwis.win.tue.nl/~laroyo/">Aroyo, L.</a> &amp; 

  Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the First International Workshop of Semantic 

  Web for Web-based Learning (SW-WL03), pp. 212-221, Velden, Austria, June 16, 

  2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/lora/sw-wl03.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  912KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: OntoAIMS: Ontological Approach to Courseware Authoring<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: <a href="http://wwwis.win.tue.nl/~laroyo/">Aroyo, L.</a>, Mizoguchi, 

  R. &amp; Tzolov, C. <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the International Conference on Computers in 

  Education (ICCE2003), pp.1011-1014, Wanchai, HongKong, December 2-5, 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/lora/icce03.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  425KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>:Authoring Support Framework for Intelligent Educational Systems<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: <a href="http://wwwis.win.tue.nl/~laroyo/">Aroyo, L.</a> &amp; 

  Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED2003), 

  pp. 362-364, Sydney, Australia, July 20-24, 2003. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/lora/aied03.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  553KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: The Proposal of an Expression of the Instructional Model of Information 

  Education based on Ontology Theory<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kasai, T., Yamaguchi H., &amp; Mizoguchi R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of World Conference on Educational Multimedia 

  and Hypermedia (ED-MEDIA2003), pp.1984-1987, Hawaii, America, June 23-28, 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kasai/kasai-edmedia03.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 24KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: An Ontological Approach for Supporting the Instructional Design 

  Process of Information Education<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kasai, T., Yamaguchi H., &amp; Mizoguchi R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED2003), 

  pp.437-439, Sydney, Australia, July 20-24, 2003. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kasai/kasai-aied03.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 19KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Development of a System that Supports Teachers of IT Education 

  in the Instructional Design Process based on Ontology<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kasai, T., Yamaguchi H., &amp; Mizoguchi R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the International Conference on Computers in 

  Education (ICCE2003), pp.1099-1102, Wanchai, HongKong, December 2-5, 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kasai/kasai-ICCE03.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 24KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: What Learning Patterns are Effective for a Learner's Growth? 

  - An ontological support for designing collaborative learning<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Inaba, A., Ikeda, M., &amp; Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the International Conference on Artificial 

  Intelligence in Education (AIED2003), pp. 219-226, Sydney, Australia, July 20-24 

  ,2003. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/aied03.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  101KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Models and Vocabulary to Represent Learner-to-Learner Interaction 

  Process in Collaborative Learning<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Inaba, A., Ohkubo, R., Ikeda, M., &amp; Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the International Conference on Computers in 

  Education (ICCE2003), pp.1088-1096, Wanchai, HongKong, December 2-5, 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/icce03.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  155KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Modeling Learner-To-Learner Interaction Process in Collaborative 

  Learning - An Ontological Approach to Interaction Analysis<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Inaba, A., Ohkubo, R., Ikeda, M., &amp; Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Supplementary Proceedings of the International Conference 

  on Computer Support for Collaborative Learning (CSCL2003), pp. 4-6, Bergen, 

  Norway, June 14-18 , 2003 <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/kaya-cscl03.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 131KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: The Model of Metacognitive Skill and How to Facilitate Development 

  of the Skill<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kayashima, M. &amp; Inaba, A.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the International Conference on Computers in 

  Education (ICCE03), pp. 277-285, Wanchai, Hong Kong, December 2-5, 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/kaya-icce03.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 160KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Towards Helping Learners Master Self-Regulation Skills<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kayashima, M. &amp; Inaba, A.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Supplementary Proceedings of the International Conference 

  on Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED2003), pp.602-614, Sydney, Australia, 

  July 20-24, 2003. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/kaya-aied03ws.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 374KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Difficulties in Mastering Self-Regulation Skill and Supporting 

  Methodologies<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kayashima, M. &amp; Inaba, A.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the International Conference on Artificial 

  Intelligence in Education (AIED2003), pp.443-445, Sydney, Australia, July 20-24 

  , 2003. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/kaya-aied03.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 265KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: How do Computers help a learner to master self-regulation skill?<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kayashima, M. &amp; Inaba, A.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Supplementaly Proceedings of the International Conference 

  on Computer Support for Collaborative Learning (CSCL2003), pp.123-125, Bergen, 

  Norway, June 14-18, 2003. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/icce03.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  162KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Learning Goals and Design Rationales in Collaborative Learning 

  - An Ontological Approach to Support Design of Collaborative Learning<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Inaba, A., Ikeda, M., &amp; Mizoguchi, R., <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the International Symposium of the Institute 

  of Scientific and Industrial Research (ISIR Symposium), pp. 81-84, Osaka, Japan, 

  March 10-11, 2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/isir03.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  54KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Organizing Knowledge about Functional Decomposition,<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kitamura, Y., Mizoguchi, R.,<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the 14th International Conference on Engineering 

  Design (ICED 03), Stockholm, Sweden, August 19-21, 2003. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-iced03.pdf">Article</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: An Ontological Schema for Sharing Conceptual Engineering Knowledge<br />

  <b>Authors</b>:Kitamura, Y., Mizoguchi, R.,<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the International Workshop on Semantic Web Foundations 

  and Application Technologies, pp. 25-28, Nara, Japan, March 12, 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-swfat03.pdf">Article</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: A Collaborative Learning Design Environment to Harmonize Sense 

  of Participation<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Takeuchi, M., Odawara, R., Hayashi, Y., Ikeda, M., and Mizoguchi, 

  R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of The International Conference on Computers in Education 

  2003 (ICCE 2003), pp.462-466, Hong Kong, 2003<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/takeuchi/icce2003_takeuchi.htm">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/takeuchi/icce2003-takeuchi.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 3.2MB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: An Environment for Distributed Ontology Development Based on 

  Dependency Management <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Sunagawa, E., Kozaki, K., Kitamura, Y., and Mizoguchi R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the Second International SemanticWeb Conference (ISWC2003), 

  pp.453-468, Sanibel Island, FL, USA, Oct. 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/sunagawa/ISWC2003_sunagawa.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/sunagawa/An%20Environment%20for%20Distributed%20Ontology%20Development.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 451KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>:Ontology-based description of functional design knowledge and 

  its use in a functional way server,<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kitamura, Y., Mizoguchi, R.,<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Expert Systems with Application, Vol. 24, Issue 2, pp. 153-166, 

  Feb. 2003.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-eswa02.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita-aei02.pdf"></a> <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-eswa02.pdf">Article 

  (Preprint version, PDF, 767KB) (</a>For a published version, please visit <a href="http://www.elsevier.com/locate/eswa">the 

  journal site</a>).</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Kfarm: An Ontology-aware Support Environment for Learning-Oriented 

  Knowledge Management<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Y. Hayashi, H. Tsumoto, M. Ikeda and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 教育システム情報学会英文論文誌, 1[1], pp. 80-89, 2003. </p>

<p><b>Title</b>: A Design Environment to Articulate Design Intention of Learning 

  Contents<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Y. Hayashi, M. Ikeda and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: International Journal of Continuing Engineering Education 

  and Life Long Learning, to appear, (2003).</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Communication Support System Adapted to a User's Background Knowledge 

  and the Topic Context<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: K. Sumi and T. Nishida<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Systems and Computers in Japan, 34[7] (2003) pp.87-98.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: A Design Support Environment for Collaborative Spaces Blending 

  Practice and Education<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: M. Takeuchi, Y. Hayashi, M. Ikeda and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: SANKEN International Workshop on Intelligent Systems 2003 

  (SIWIS 2003), Osaka, Japan, December 17, 2003.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Ontology Development at the Conceptual Level for Theory-Aware 

  ITS Authoring Systems<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: V. Psyche, R. Mizoguchi and J. Bourdeau<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: SANKEN International Workshop on Intelligent Systems 2003 

  (SIWIS 2003), Osaka, Japan, December 17, 2003.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Who is a Person of High Intellectual 

  Reputation in an Organization?<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Y. Hayashi, M. Ikeda and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proceedings of the International Conference on Artificial 

  Intelligence in Education (AIED2003), pp. 422-424, Sydney, Australia, July 20-24 

  ,2003.</p>

<hr />

<a name="2002" id="2002"></a> 

<h3><i>2002</i></h3>

<p><b>Title</b>: タスク・ドメインロールに基づくオントロジー構築ガイドシステムの設計と開発<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 石川 誠一, 久保 成毅, 古崎 晃司, 來村 徳信, 溝口 理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会論文誌, Vol.17,No5,pp.585-597,2002<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/jsai2002ishikawa.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/jsai2002ishikawa.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 114KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: オントロジー構築・利用環境「法造」の開発と利用−実規模プラントのオントロジーを例として<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 古崎 晃司，來村 徳信，佐野 年伸，本松 慎一郎，石川 誠一, 溝口 理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会論文誌, Vol.17, No4, pp 407-419,2002<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/jsai2002kozaki_hm.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/jsai2002kozaki_hm..pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 105KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 「ロール」および「関係」に関する基礎的考察に基づくオントロジー記述環境の開発<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 古崎 晃司，來村 徳信，池田 満，溝口 理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会論文誌, Vol.17, No.3, pp.196-208,2002<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/jsai2002kozaki_oe.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/jsai2002kozaki_oe.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 524KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: オントロジー工学に基づく機能的知識体系化の枠組み<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 來村 徳信，溝口 理一郎, <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会論文誌, 17(1), pp.61-72, 2002<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-jsai01a.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-jsai01a.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 1.06MB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 機能オントロジーに基づく機能的知識の体系的記述とその機能構造設計における利用<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 來村 徳信，笠井 俊信，吉川 真理子，高橋 賢，古崎 晃司，溝口 理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会論文誌, 17(1), pp. 73-84, 2002 <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-jsai01b.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-jsai01b.pdf">Article 

  (PDF, 1.06MB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 生産技術の知識ベースと生産工程改善<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 布瀬雅義，柏瀬雅一，來村 徳信，溝口 理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 精密工学会誌，68[4], 507-510, 2002.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/seisan.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  1,343KB)</a> </p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 付加価値増大のための企業間コラボレーションモデル<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 林　浩一, 溝口　理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 情報処理学会論文誌, Vol. 43, No. 11, pp. 3343-3354., 2002.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Hozo: An Environment 

  for Building/Using Ontologies Based on a Fundamental Consideration of &quot;Role&quot;

  and &quot;Relationship&quot;<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kouji Kozaki, Yoshinobu Kitamura, Mitsuru Ikeda, and Riichiro 

  Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the 13th International Conference Knowledge Engineering 

  and Knowledge Management(EKAW2002), pp.213-218, Siguenza, Spain, October 1-4, 

  2002<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/ekaw2002kozaki.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/EKAW2002_kozaki.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 519KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Consensus Formation 

  Support System via Ontology Generation,<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kaoru Sumi and Riichiro Mizoguchi <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: PRICAI'02 International Workshop on Intelligent Media Technology 

  for Communicative Reality, 2002.<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kaoru/IMTCR.pdf">Article(PDF file 

  484KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: An Interaction Analysis 

  Support System for CSCL<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: A. Inaba, R. Ohkubo, M. Ikeda and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of ICCE2002, 2002 (to appear)<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/inaba-ICCE02.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/inaba-ICCE02.PDF">Article(PDF 

  file 221KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Supporting Interaction 

  Analysis for Collaborative Learning<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: A. Inaba, R. Ohkubo, M. Ikeda, R. Mizoguchi and J. Toyoda<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the 6th International Conference, ITS 2002, Biarritz, 

  France, pp. 1000-1001, 2002 . <b></b><br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/inaba-ITS02.PDF">Article(PDF 

  file 12.4KB)

  </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Applications of a Collaborative 

  Learning Ontology <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: B. Barros, M. F. Verdejo, T. Read &amp; R. Mizoguchi <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: MICAI'2002 Mexican International Conference on Artificial 

  Inteligence). LNAI, Springer-Verlag, pp.301-310, 2002. <b></b><br />

  Abstract and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/119.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 610KB)</a> <br />
</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Collaborative ontological 

  engineering of instructional design knowledge for an ITS authoring environment 

  <br />

  <b>Authors</b>:Bourdeau, Jacqueline and Riichiro Mizoguchi <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the 6th International Conference, ITS 2002, Biarritz, 

  France, pp.399-409, IOS Press, 2002.<b></b><br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/its2002paper_n._54_final.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 160KB)</a> <br />
</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Ontology-based systematization 

  of functional knowledge <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Mizoguchi, R. <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of TMCE2002:Tools and methods of competitive engineering, 

  Wuhan, P.R.China, pp.45-64, 2002.<b></b><br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Miz16P.pdf">Article(PDF file 

  311KB)</a> <br />
</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: A Collaborative-learning 

  Support Function to Harness Organizational Intellectual Synergy<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Hiroyuki Tsumoto, Yusuke Hayashi, Mitsuru Ikeda, Akiko Inaba, 

  and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of ICCE 2002, (to appear), 2002 <br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/tsumoto/icce2002_tsumoto.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/tsumoto/icce2002_tsumoto.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 186KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Intellectual Genealogy 

  Graph -Affording a Fine Prospect of Organizational Learning-<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Hayashi, Y., Tsumoto, H., Ikeda, M., and Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the 6th International Conference on Intelligent Tutoring 

  Systems (ITS 2002), pp.10-20, San Sebastian, Spain and Biarritz, France , June 

  2 - 7, 2002.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/ITS2002-hayashi.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/ITS2002-hayashi.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 338KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Kfarm: A Knowledge Management 

  Support System Based on Dual Loop Model<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Hayashi, Y., Tsumoto, H., Ikeda, M., and Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of Pan-Yellow-Sea International Workshop on Information 

  Technologies for Network Era(PYIWIT'02), pp.235-242, Saga, Japan, March 7 - 

  8, 2002.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/PIYWIT-hay-CR.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/PIYWIT-hay-CR.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 452KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: A Functional Concept Ontology and Its Application 

  to Automatic Identification of Functional Structures, <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kitamura, Y., Sano, T., Namba, K., and Mizoguchi, R., <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Advanced Engineering Informatics (formerly known as Artificial 

  Intelligence in Engineering), Vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 145-163, 2002.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-aei02.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-aei02.pdf">Article 

  (Preprint version, PDF, 506KB)</a> (For a published version, please visit <a href="http://www.elsevier.com/locate/aei">the 

  journal site</a>).</p>



<p><b>Title</b>:Ontology-Based Modeling of 

Product Functionality and Use -Part 1: Functional-Knowledge Modeling, 

<br />
<b>Authors</b>: Y. Kitamura and R. Mizoguchi, <br />
<b>Reference: </b>Proc. of 

The Third International Seminar and Workshop Engineering Design in Integrated 

Product Development (EDIProD 200), pp. 105-114, Lagow, Poland, October 10-12, 

2002<br />
<a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/members/kita/pub/kita-EDIProD02.pdf">Article</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>:Ontology-Based Modeling of Product Functionality and Use - Part 

  2: Considering Use and Unintended Behavior<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: W.F van der Vegte, Y. Kitamura, R. Mizoguchi, I. Horvath<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of The Third International Seminar and Workshop Engineering 

  Design in Integrated Product Development (EDIProD 2002), pp. 115-124, Lagow, 

  Poland, October 10-12, 2002.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/members/kita/pub/wilfred-EDIProD02.pdf">Article</a></p>

<hr />

<a name="2001" id="2001"></a>

<h3><i>2001</i></h3>

<p><b>Title</b>: コンピテンシーオントロジーに基く人的資源開発の設計支援アプローチ<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 平田謙次・池田満・溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 教育システム情報学会誌, Vol. 18, No. 34, pp.340-351, 2001<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/JSISE2001_Hirata.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/JSISE2001.6.22.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 126KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 動的学習グループ構成機能を備えた協調学習支援システムの開発<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Thepchai Supnithi, 稲葉晶子, 池田満, 豊田順一, 溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 教育システム情報学会誌, Vol.18, No.1, pp.101-110, 2001<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ina/thep_jsise01.pdf">Article (PDF, 990KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 個人の背景知識と話題の文脈に適応したコミュニケーション支援<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 角 薫, 西田 豊明，<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 電子情報通信学会論文誌,Vol.J84-D-I, No.8, ソフトウェアエージェントとその応用論文特集, pp.1211-1221, 2001.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: パブリック・オピニオン・チャンネル -知識創造コミュニティの形成に向けて-, <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 畦地 真太郎, 福原 知宏, 藤原 伸彦, 角 薫, 松村 憲一, 平田 高志, 矢野 博之, 西田 豊明，<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会誌,Vol.16-1, pp.130-138 2001.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Total Resolution for Human Resource Development Based on Competency 

  Ontology<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kenji Hirata, Mitsuru Ikeda, Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the 9th International Conference on Computers in 

  Education(ICCE'2001), pp.1149-1152, Seoul, Korea, November 12 - 15, 2001.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/ICCE2001_Hirata.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/ICCE2001_Hirata.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 305KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: The Meaning of LOM and LOM Authoring Tool on HRD<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kenji Hirata, Yoshiyuki Takaoka, Mamoru Ohta, Mitsuru Ikeda<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of International Conference on Dublin Core and Metadata 

  Applications 2001,pp.259-262, National Institute of Informatics, Tokyo, Japan, 

  October 22-26, 2001<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/DC_Hirata.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/DC_Hirata.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 112KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Supporting Cooperative Consensus Formation via Ontologies<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kaoru Sumi and Riichiro Mizoguchi <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: The 2001 International Conference on Web Intelligence (WI-01), 

  in Ning Zhong, Yiyu Yao, Jiming Liu, and Setsuo Ohsuga (Eds.), Web Intelligence: 

  Research and Development (WI 2001 Proceedings), Lecture Notes in Artificial 

  Intelligence, Vol. 2198, pp.525-529, Springer, 2001.<br />

  Abstract and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kaoru/wi01.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 169KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Design and Analysis of Learners' Interaction based on Collaborative 

  Learning Ontology<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> A. Inaba, R.Ohkubo, M. Ikeda, R. Mizoguchi, and J. Toyoda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>Proc. of EuroCSCL01, pp.308-315, 2001<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/inaba-CSCL01.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/inaba-CSCL01.PDF">Article(PDF 

  file 108KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Instructional Design Support Environment for CSCL - Fundamental 

  Concepts and Design Patterns<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> A. Inaba, R. Ohkubo, M. Ikeda, R. Mizoguchi, and J. Toyoda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>Proc. of Artificial Intelligence in Education AIED-2001, San 

  Antonio, USA, pp.130-141, 2001<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/inaba-AIED01.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/inaba-AIED01.PDF">Article(PDF 

  file 395KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Ontological Engineering: Foundation of the next generation knowledge 

  processing <br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi <br />

  <b>Reference:</b>N.Zhong et al.(Eds.) WI2001, LNAI2198, Springer-Verlag, pp.44-57, 

  2001 <br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/WI2001-Miz.pdf">Article(PDF file 

  326KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A platform for collaboration analysis in CSCL. An ontological 

  approach <br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Barros, B., Mizoguchi, R. &amp; Verdejo <br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of Artificial Intelligence in Education AIED-2001, San 

  Antonio, USA, pp.530-532, IOS Press, 2001 <br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/BarMizVerPoster.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 29KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Toward an Ontology-aware Support for Learning-Oriented Knowledge 

  Management<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Hayashi, Y., Tsumoto, H., Ikeda, M., and Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of the 9th International Conference on Computers in 

  Education(ICCE'2001), pp.1149-1152, Seoul, Korea, November 12 - 15, 2001.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/ICCE2001-hay-CR.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/ICCE2001-hay-CR.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 234KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Knowledge Management Support Environment based on Dual Loop 

  Model<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Ikeda, M., Yusuke Hayashi, Tsumoto, H., and Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of 2001 IEEE International Conference Multimedia and 

  Expo (ICME2001), pp.840-843, Tokyo, Japan, August 22-25, 2001.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ikeda/ICME2001-ikeda-CR.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ikeda/ICME2001-ikeda-CR.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 202KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Conceptual Level Design Environment for Learning Contents<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Hayashi, Y.<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of IFIP TC.13 International Conference on Human-Computer-Interaction(INTERACT'01), 

  pp.640-643, Tokyo, Japan, July 9 - 13, 2001.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/INTARACT2001-hayashi.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/INTARACT2001-hayashi.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file 202KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: A Platform for Collaboration Analysis in CSCL: An ontological 

  approach <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Beatriz Barros, Riichiro Mizoguchi and Felisa Verdejo <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Submitted to AIED01, St. Antonio, USA, May 19-23, 2001 <br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/BbRmFv.htm">Abstract</a> and 

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/BbRMmFv-AIED.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 887KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Ontology-based Description of Functional Design Knowledge and 

  its Use in a Functional Way Server, <br />

  <b>Authors</b>:Yoshinobu Kitamura, Toshinobu Kasai and Riichiro Mizoguchi, <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the Pacific Asian Conference on Intelligent Systems 

  2001 (PAIS 2001), pp. 400-409, Seoul, Korea, November 16-17, 2001.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-pais2001.pdf">Article (PDF, 

  372KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Telme: A Personalized, Context-Aware Communication Support System<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kaoru Sumi and Toyoaki Nishida: <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: IEEE Intelligent Systems, Vol.16-3, May/June 2001, pp.21-28, 2001.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: A Model-based Expert System based on a Domain Ontology, <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kitamura, Y., Ikeda, M., and Mizoguchi R., <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Expert Systems: The Technology of Knowledge Management for the 21st Century, 

  Vol. 1, Leondes, C.T. (ed.), pp. 171-196, Academic Press, 2001.<br />
</p>

<hr />

<a name="2000" id="2000"></a>

<h3><i>2000</i></h3>

<p><b>Title: </b>学習理論に基づく協調学習グループの構成のための学習目的<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>稲葉晶子, テップチャイ　サップニティ, 池田満, 溝口理一郎, 豊田順一<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 電子情報通信学会論文誌, Vol. J83-D-I, No.6, pp.569-579, 2000.<br />

  Abstract and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/IEICE2000.pdf">Article (PDF 

  file, 639KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 知的訓練システムSmartTrainerの設計と実現<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 金来，林雄介，池田満，溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 電子情報通信学会論文誌, J83-D-I, No.4, (2000), 430-440.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 出会いを支援するエージェント, <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 角 康之, 角 薫, 間瀬健二, <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: エージェントテクノロジー最前線, 長尾 確編, 共立出版, (2000), 167-196.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: パブリック・オピニオン・チャンネル -知識創造コミュニティの形成に向けて-,<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 畦地 真太郎, 福原 知宏, 藤原 伸彦, 角 薫, 松村 憲一, 平田 高志, 矢野 博之,西田 豊明, <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 人工知能学会誌（ショートノート）,Vol.15-1,(2000), 69-73.<br />
</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Using Ontological Engineering to Overcome AI-ED Problems<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Riichiro Mizoguchi and Jacqueline Bourdeau<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, 

  Vol.11, No.2, pp.107-121, 2000<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/JAied.htm">Abstract</a> and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/JAied.pdf">Article(PDF file, 

  130KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: IT Revolution in Learning Technology <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Riichiro Mizoguchi <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the SchoolNet2000, pp.46-55, Pusan, Korea, August 

  4-5, 2000 <br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Pusan.htm">Abstract</a> and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Pusan.pdf">Article(PDF file, 

  47KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: A Personal History of AI Research Activity - Expert System, Knowledge 

  Engineering and Ontological Engineering <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Riichiro Mizoguchi <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: The Sixth Symposium on Management (SymOrg2000), pp.15-19, 

  Zlatibor, Yugoslavia, May 31-June 2, 2000 <br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/MizAbst.htm">Abstract</a> and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/MizAbst.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 60KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Foundation of Knowledge Systematization: Role of Ontological 

  Engineering <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Riichiro Mizoguchi and Yoshinobu Kitamura <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Industrial Knowledge Management - A Micro Level Approach, 

  Rajkumar Roy Ed., Chapter 1, pp.17-36, Springer-Verlag, London, 2000<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Book5.htm">Abstract</a> and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Book5.pdf">Article(PDF file, 

  203KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Construction and Deployment of a Plant Ontology <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Riichiro Mizoguchi, Kouji Kozaki, Toshinobu Sano and Yoshinobu 

  Kitamura <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management - Methods, 

  Models and Tools -, The 12th International Conference, EKAW2000, Lecture Notes 

  in Artificial Intelligence 1937, Springer-Verlag, pp.113-128, Juan-les-Pins, 

  France, October 2-6, 2000 <br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Ekaw.htm">Abstract</a> and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Ekaw.pdf">Article(PDF file, 505KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b>Development of an Environment for Building Ontologies which is 

  based on a Fundamental Consideration of &quot;Relationship&quot; and &quot;Role&quot;<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Kouji Kozaki, Yoshinobu Kitamura, Mitsuru Ikeda, and Riichiro 

  Mizoguchii<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> The Sixth Pacific Knowledge Acquisition Workshop (PKAW2000), 

  pp.205-221 ,Sydney, Australia, December 11-13, 2000<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/pkaw2000kozaki.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kozaki/pkaw2000kozaki.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 549KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Is What You Write What You Get?: An Operational Model of Training 

  Scenario<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yusuke Hayashi, Mitsuru Ikeda, Kazuhisa Seta, Osamu Kakusho 

  and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Fifth International Conference on Intelligent Tutoring Systems 

  (ITS 2000), pp.192-201, Montreal, Canada, June 19 - 23, 2000<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/hayashi-ITS2000.htm">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/hayashi-ITS2000.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 496KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Functional Understanding based on an Ontology of Functional Concepts<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshinobu Kitamura, Toshinobu Sano and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> The Sixth Pacific Rim International Conference on Artificial 

  Intelligence (PRICAI 2000), pp.723-733, Melbourne, Australia, August 28 - September 

  1, 2000<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-pricai00.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 317KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Towards Multi-view Functional Knowledge Server based on a Functional 

  Ontology,<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshinobu Kitamura, Toshio Ueda, Weiqin Chen and Riichiro Mizoguchi,<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> International Design Conference - DESIGN 2000, pp.407-412, 

  Dubrovnik, Croatia, May 23 - 26, 2000<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-design00.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 238KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Is a Learning Theory Harmonious with others? -To form Effective 

  Collaborative Learning Groups with Ontological Engineering-<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Akiko Inaba, Thepchai Supnithi, Mitsuru Ikeda, Riichiro Mizoguchi, 

  and Jun'ichi Toyoda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of ICCE2000, pp. 999-1006, Taipei, Taiwan, 2000<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/ICCE2000.pdf">Article(PDF file, 

  299KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>A Step Towards Integration of Learning Theories To Form anEffective 

  Collaborative Learning Group<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Akiko Inaba, Thepchai Supnithi, Mitsuru Ikeda, RiichiroMizoguchi, 

  and Jun'ichi Toyoda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of PRICAI2000, pp.826, Melbourne, Australia, 2000<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/PRICAI2000(poster).pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 63KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>An overview of&nbsp; &quot;Learning Goal Ontology&quot;<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Akiko Inaba, Thepchai Supnithi, Mitsuru Ikeda, RiichiroMizoguchi, 

  and Jun'ichi Toyoda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of&nbsp; ECAI2000 Workshop on Analysis and Modelling 

  of CollaborativeLearning Interactions, pp.23-30, Berlin, Germany, 2000<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/ECAI2000.pdf">Article(PDF file, 

  283KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>&quot;How Can We Form Effective Collaborative Learnning Groups ~ Theoretical justification of &quot; Opportunistic Group Formation &quot; with ontological engineering ~ &quot;<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Akiko Inaba, Thepchai Supnithi, Mitsuru Ikeda, RiichiroMizoguchi, 

  and Jun'ichi Toyoda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of ITS'2000, pp.282-291, Montreal Canada, 2000<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/CSCL/ITS2000.pdf">Article(PDF file, 

  171KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Intelligent Tool for Facilitating Creative Communication, <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kaoru Sumi, <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: published in Toyoaki Nishida ed., Dynamic Knowledge Interaction, CRC Press, 

  (2000), 105-130.</p>

<p><b>Title</b>: Information Presentation by Inferring User's Interests Based on Individual 

  Conceptual Spaces, <br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Kaoru Sumi, Yasuyuki Sumi, Kenji Mase, Shin-ichi Nakasuka, and Koichi Hori, 

  <br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Systems and Computers in Japan, Vol.31-10, (2000), 41-55. </p>

<hr />

<a name="1999" id="1999"></a>

<h3><i><b>1999</b></i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> 設計とオントロジー<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>溝口理一郎，来村徳信<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 日本学術会議50周年記念シンポジウム「設計の質的転換」講演論文集, pp.68-75, May, 1999<br />

  Abstract and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-jsc99.pdf">Article 

  (PDF file, 413KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b>故障オントロジー −概念抽出とその組織化−，<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>來村 徳信, 溝口 理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>人工知能学会誌,, Vol.14, No.5, pp.68-77, 1999<b> </b><br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-jsai99a.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-jsai99a.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 348 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> 故障オントロジーの考察に基づく故障診断方式 −網羅的故障仮説生成−<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>來村 徳信, 西原 稔人, 植田 正彦, 池田 満, 小堀 聡, 角所 収, 溝口 理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>人工知能学会誌, Vol.14, No.5, pp.78-87, 1999<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-jsai99b.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-jsai99b.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 255 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>オントロジー工学基礎論 −意味リンク，クラス，関係，ロールのオントロジー的意味論−<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>溝口理一郎，池田満，来村徳信<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>人工知能学会誌, Vol.14, pp.1019-1032, 1999<br />

  Abstract and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-tr9903.pdf">Article 

  (PDF file,130KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>オントロジー研究の基礎と応用<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>人工知能学会誌, 14, pp.977-988, 1999 <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/KisoAppli.htm">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/KisoAppli.pdf">Article 

  (PDF file,122KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 訓練システム SmartTrainer 構築用オーサリングツール，<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 金来，林雄介，池田満，溝口理一郎，太田衛，高岡良行<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: 教育システム情報学会誌秋号，16(3) (1999), 139-148</p>

<p><b>Title:</b>Technical Knowledge Dissemination in Industries - Foundation and 

  Practice -<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Mamoru Ohta, Masahiko Ueda, Yoshiyuki Takaoka, Mitsuru Ikeda 

  and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>Proc. of ICCE'99, pp.285-290, Chiba Japan, 1999<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/toko/ohta_ICCE99.htm">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-skfcw99.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-smc01.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-smc02.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/toko/ohta-ICCE99.PDF">Article (PDF 

  file, 83KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>A Methodology of Collaborative Synthesis byArtificial Intelligence 

  -- JSPS Research for the Future Program:Science of Synthesis --<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi, Eiji Arai, Masahiko Onosato, KojiKawakami 

  and Tadataka Konishi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 2nd International Workshop on Strategic Knowledgeand Concept 

  Formation, pp. 221-232, Iwate, Japan, October 20-22nd, 1999.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/SKCF.htm">Abstract</a> and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-skfcw99.pdf">Article (PDF 

  file,102 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b>Towards Redesign based on Ontologies of FunctionalConcepts and 

  Redesign Strategies<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>Yoshinobu Kitamura and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>2nd International Workshop on Strategic Knowledgeand Concept 

  Formation, pp. 181-192, Iwate, Japan, October 20-22nd, 1999.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-skfcw99.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-skfcw99.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 266 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b>An Ontology-Based Human Friendly Message Generationin a Multiagent 

  Human Media System for Oil Refinery PlantOperation<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>Riichiro Mizoguchi, Toshinobu Sano and YoshinobuKitamura<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>Proc. of the IEEE SMC99, IEEE Systems, Man andCybernetics Society, 

  Vol.5, pp.648-653, Oct.1999 <br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-smc01.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/SmcOnt.htm">Abstract</a> and 

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-skfcw99.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-smc01.pdf">Article (PDF file, 

  445 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b>Human Media Interface System for the Next GenerationPlant Operation<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>Riichiro Mizoguchi, Akio Gofuku, Yoshitsugu MatsuuraYoshihiko 

  Sakashita and Mikio Tokunaga<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>Proc. of the IEEE SMC99, IEEE Systems, Man andCybernetics Society, 

  Vol.5, pp.630-635, Oct.1999<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/SMC-Zentai.htm">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-skfcw99.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-smc01.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-smc02.pdf">Article (PDF file, 

  318 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b>A Multiple View Authoring Tool for Modeling TrainingMaterials<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>Yusuke HAYASHI, Lai JIN, Kazuhisa SETA, Mitsuru IKEDA,Riichiro 

  MIZOGUCHI<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>Proc. of ICCE'99, pp.187-190, Chiba Japan, 1999<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/hayashi-ICCE1999.htm">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-skfcw99.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-smc01.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-smc02.pdf"></a><a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/hayashi/hayashi-ICCE99.pdf">Article 

  (PDF file, 95KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Ontology-aware systems in AI-ED research<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>Riichiro Mizoguchi and Jacqueline Bourdeau<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>AI Technical Report 99-04, I.S.I.R., OsakaUniversity, March, 

  1999<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-tr9904.pdf">Article (PDFfile,204KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Meta-Functions of Artifacts<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>Yoshinobu Kitamura and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>The Thirteenth International Workshop on QualitativeReasoning\ 

  (QR-99), pp.136-145, June 6-9 1999<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-qr99.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-qr99.pdf">Article(PDF file, 

  235 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Ontology of Functional Concepts of Artifacts<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Y. Kitamura and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>AI Technical Report 99-01, I.S.I.R., OsakaUniversity, March, 

  1999<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-tr9901.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-tr9901.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 148 KB) </a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>An Ontology for Building A Conceptual ProblemSolving Model<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Mitsuru Ikeda, Kazuhisa Seta, Osamu Kakusho, andRiichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of ECAI98 Workshop on Applications of ontologies and 

  problem-solving model, pp. 126-133, (1998).(alsosubmitted to Knowledge and Information 

  Systems)<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/ikeda/ikeda-KAIS98.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 130KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Ontological Engineering of Instruction: APerspective<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Jacqueline Bourdeau and Riichiro MIZOGUCHI<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of AIED'99, pp.620-623, 1999<br />

  Abstract and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/jac-aied99.pdf">Article 

  (PDF file,130KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Learning Goal Ontology Supported by LearningTheories for Opportunistic 

  Group Formation<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Thepchai Supnithi, Akiko Inaba, Mitsuru Ikeda,Jun'ichi Toyoda, 

  Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of AIED'99, pp 67-74, Le Mans France, 1999<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/thep/thep-aied99.pdf">Article (PDF 

  file,100KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>An Ontology-Aware Authoring Tool - Functionalstructure and guidance 

  generation -<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Lai JIN, Weiqin CHEN, Yusuke HAYASHI, Mitsuru IKEDA,Riichiro 

  MIZOGUCHI&Aring;, Yoshiyuki TAKAOKA, Mamoru OHTA<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of AIED'99, pp.85-92, Le Mans France, 1999<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kin/kin-aied99.pdf">Article (PDF 

  file,63KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Communication Content Ontology for Learner Model Agent in Multi-agent 

  Architecture<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Weiqin Chen and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>Proc. of the 7th International Conference on Computers in Education: 

  ICCE99, pp.95-102, 1999<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/wendy/wendy-icce99.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/wendy/wendy-icce99.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 49KB)</a></p>

  

<p><b>Title:</b>An Ontological Analysis of Fault Process and Categoryof Faults<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>Yoshinobu Kitamura and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b>Tenth International Workshop on Principles ofDiagnosis (DX-99), 

  pp. 118-128, June 8-11 1999, Scotland,</p>

<hr />

<a name="1998" id="1998"></a>

<h3><i>1998</i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> 問題解決オントロジーの構成-スケジューリングタスクオントロジーを例にして-<br />

  <b>Authors:</b>瀬田和久, 池田満, 角所収, 溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 人工知能学会誌, Vol.13, No.4, pp.597-608, 1998<br />

  Abstract and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/seta/seta-jsai98.ps">Article(PS 

  file, 2518 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>問題解決オントロジーに基づく概念レベルプログラミング環境:CLEPE<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> 瀬田和久, 池田満, 島輝行, 角所収, 溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 電子情報通信学会論文誌, Vol. J81-D-II, No.9, pp.2168-2180,1998<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/seta/seta-ieice-98.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/seta/seta-ieice98.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 92 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: 次世代プラント用ヒューマンインターフェースの研究開発<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: 溝口理一郎, 五福明夫, 山内進吾, 坂下喜彦<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: システム/制御/情報, Vol. 42, No. 5,pp. 244-252, 1998</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> 知識工学の基礎としてのオントロジー<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>池田満 <br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 人工知能学会誌, Vol. 13,No. 1, pp. 11-13, 1998</p>

<p><b>Title:</b>オントロジー工学への道<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 人工知能学会誌, Vol. 13,No. 1, pp. 9-10, 1998</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> 科学技術基本計画の提案<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 人工知能学会誌 Vol. 13,No. 1, pp. 51-55, 1998</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Ontology-based Intelligent Authoring Tool<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Weiqin Chen, Yusuke Hayashi, Lai Jin, Mitsuru Ikeda,Riichiro 

  Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of ICCE'98, pp.41-49, Beijing, China,1998(Also 

  in Workshop Notes of Model based reasoning for intelligenteducation environments, 

  ECAI98, Brighton, UK, 1998)..<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/wendy/wendy-icce98.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/wendy/wendy-icce98.pdf">Article(PDF 

  file, 242KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Functional Ontology for Functional Understanding<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Y. Kitamura, M. Ikeda, R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Working Papers of Twelfth International Workshop onQualitative 

  Reasoning (QR-98), Cape Cod, USA, May 26-29, AAAITechnical Report WS-98-01, 

  AAAI Press, pp.77-87, 1998<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-qr98.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-qr98.pdf">Article(PDF file, 

  403 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title</b>: A Structured Hyper-Glossary As a Cognitive Tool forComputer-Based 

  Learning<br />

  <b>Authors</b>: Katherine Sinitsa and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference</b>: Proc. of the IASTED International ConferenceComputers and 

  Advanced Technology in Education (CATE'98), pp.252-256, Mexico, 1998.</p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Towards Redesign of Manufacturing Processes based onFunctional 

  Understanding,<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshinobu Kitamura, Toshio Ueda, Masayoshi Fuse,Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Poster Proceedings of Artificial Intelligence inDesign '98, 

  pp.14, 1998.<br />

  <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-aid98.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-aid98.pdf">Extendedabstract 

  (PDF file, 403 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Ontology Models for Supporting ExploratoryInformation Needs<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Maria Lee and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proceedings of the Fifth International ISKOConference, pp.31-38, 

  1998..<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/maria-isko98.pdf">article (PDF 

  file,33 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>An ontology-based Web engine<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Maria Lee and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proceedings of the Asia Pacific Web Conference,pp.359-360, 

  (1998)<br />

  Abstract and <a 

href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/maria-web98.pdf">article (PDF 

  file, 65KB)</a></p>

<hr />

<a name="1997" id="1997"></a>

<h3><i>1997</i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> オントロジー工学序説 −内容指向研究の基盤技術と理論の確立を目指して−<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>溝口理一郎, 池田満<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 人工知能学会誌, Vol. 12,No. 4, pp. 559-569, 1997. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/Ont97.pdf">Article (PDF 

  file, 56KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> オントロジーの立場から見た教授戦略の系統性解析<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>山口晴久, 溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 電子情報通信学会論文誌, Vol. J80-D-II, No. 7, pp.1972-1981, 1997 </p>

<p><b>Title:</b> 協調学習支援のモデル −Opportunistic Group Formation−<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>池田満, 呉昌豪, 溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 電子情報通信学会論文誌 Vol. J80-D-11 No.4 (1997) 855-865 </p>

<p><b>Title:</b> モデルに基づく問題解決のための流体系と時間のオントロジーの構築とその評価<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>來村徳信, 笹島宗彦, 池田満, 吉川信治, 小澤健二, 溝口理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 人工知能学会誌, , Vol. 12,No. 1, pp. 132-143, 1997.<br />
</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Roles of Shared Ontology in AI-ED Research --Intelligence, Conceptualization, 

  Standardization, and Reusability--<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi, Mitsuru Ikeda, and KatherineSinitsa<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of AIED-97, pp.537-544, also as TechnicalReport AI-TR-97-4, 

  I.S.I.R., Osaka University, 1997<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-aied97.html">Abstract</a> 

  and Article (<a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-aied97.pdf"> PDFfile, 43 

  KB</a>) or <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/ikeda-ijcai97.ps">(Postscriptfile, 

  1.0 MB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Task Ontology Makes It Easier To Use AuthoringTools<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mitsuru Ikeda, Kazuhisa Seta, and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of IJCAI-97, pp.342-347, also as TechnicalReport AI-TR-97-3, 

  I.S.I.R., Osaka University, 1997<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/ikeda-ijcai97.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/ikeda-ijcai97.pdf">article</a>(PDF 

  file 184 KB)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Opportunistic Group Formation- A Theory forIntelligent Support 

  in Collaborative Learning -<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mitsuru IKEDA, Shogo GO, Riichiro MIZOGUCHI<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of AI-ED-97, pp.167-174, 1997.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/ikeda-aied97.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/ikeda-aied97.pdf">article</a>(PDF 

  file, 184 KB</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Role Explication of Simulation in IntelligentTraining Systems 

  by Training Task Ontology,<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Lai JIN, Mitsuru IKEDA, Riichiro MIZOGUCHI, YoshiyukiTAKAOKA:<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of AI-ED-97 Workshop on Architectures forintelligent 

  simulation-based learning environments, pp41-48,1997.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kin/kin-aied97.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kin/kin-aied97.pdf">article</a> (PDF 

  file, 91 KB)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Causal Time Ontology for Qualitative Reasoning<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Y. Kitamura, M. Ikeda, R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of IJCAI-97, pp.501-506, 1997<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-ijcai97.html">Abstract</a> 

  and article(<a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-ijcai97.pdf"> PDF file, 

  78KB</a>) or<a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-ijcai97.ps">(PostScript 

  file, 425KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Capturing a Conceptual Model for End-userProgramming -Task Ontology 

  as a Static User Model-<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> K. Seta, M. Ikeda, O. Kakusho, R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of the sixth international conference on usermodeling, 

  UM'97, pp. 203-214, 1997.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/seta/seta-um97.html">Abstract</a> 

  and Article <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/seta/seta-um97.pdf">(PDFfile, 185 

  KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Model-based Diagnosis with Fault Event Models<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshinobu Kitamura, Masahiko Ueda, Mitsuru Ikeda,Satosi Kobori, 

  Osamu Kakusho and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of '97 Pacific Asian Conference on ExpertSystems, pp. 

  322-329, 1997.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-paces97b.html">Abstract</a> 

  and article <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-paces97b.pdf">(PDF,68KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Towards Ontology Engineering<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi and Mitsuru Ikeda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of The Joint 1997 Pacific Asian Conference onExpert 

  systems / Singapore International Conference on IntelligentSystems, pp. 259-266, 

  1997.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-onteng.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-onteng.pdf">article(PDF, 

  30KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>An Ontological Consideration of Causal Time inQualitative Reasoning 

  Systems<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshinobu Kitamura, Mitsuru Ikeda, and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference: </b>Proc. of The Eleventh International Workshop onQualitative 

  Reasoning (QR-97), pp.277-285, 1997.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Negotiation Mechanism for Forming a Learning Groupin CSCL<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Shogo Go, Mitsuru Ikeda and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of International Conference on Computers inEducation, 

  pp. 349-353, 1997.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> FITS/CL: A System to Initiate Individual andCollaborative Learning<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Kanji Ryomoto, Shogo Go, Mitsuru Ikeda and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of International Conference on Computers inEducation, 

  pp. 871-873, 1997.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Domain Ontology Design for Model-based Reasoning andIts Evaluation<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshinobu Kitamura, Mitsuru Ikeda and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of '97 Pacific Asian Conference on ExpertSystems, pp. 

  275-282, 1997.</p>

 

<hr />

<a name="1996" id="1996"></a>

<h3><i>1996</i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> 形式と内容ー内容指向人工知能研究の勧め<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>溝口　理一郎<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 人工知能学会誌, Vol. 11,No. 1, pp. 

  50-59, 1996.<br />

 <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/AI-Map.pdf">Article (PDF file, 48KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Qualitative Reasoning based on an Ontology ofFluid Systems 

  and Its Evaluation on a Power Plant<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Y. Kitamura, M. Ikeda, R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of PRICAI-96, pp.288-299, Cairns, Australia,August, 

  1996. Lecture Notes in AI 1114, Springer-Verlag.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-pricai96.html">Abstract</a> 

  and article<a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-pricai96.pdf"> (PDF file, 

  102KB)</a> or<a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/pricai96.ps">(Postscript file, 

  284KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A method of qualitative reasoning for model-basedproblem solving 

  and its application to a nuclear plant<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Y. Kitamura, M. Sasajima, M. Ikeda, S. Yoshikawa, A.Endou, O. 

  Kakusho, R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Expert Systems with Applications Vol.10, No.3/4,pp.441-448, 

  1996<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-eswa96.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/kita-eswa96.ps">article</a>(PS 

  file, 359279 bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Task Ontology Design for IntelligentEducational/Training Systems<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> R. Mizoguchi, K. Sinitsa<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of Workshop on &quot; Architectures and Methodsfor Designing 

  Cost-Effective and Reusable ITSs, &quot;, ITS'96, Montreal,pp. 1-21, 1996<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-its96.html">Article</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Knowledge Engineering of Educational Systems forAuthoring System 

  Design -A preliminary results of task ontologydesign-<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> R. Mizoguchi, K. Sinitsa and M. Ikeda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of EAIED, pp.329-335, Lisbon, 1996<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/miz-eaied96.html">Article</a></p>

<p><b>Title: </b>Design of a Conceptual Level Programming EnvironmentBased on 

  Task Ontology<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> K. Seta, M. Ikeda, O. Kakusho, R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of the first international conference onsuccesses and 

  pitfalls of knowledge based systems in real worldapplications, BKK'97, pp.11-20, 

 1996.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/seta/seta-BKK96.html">Abstract</a> 

  and Article <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/seta/seta-um97.pdf">(PDFfile, 82 

  KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Ontological Issues on Computer-based Training<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Lai Jin, Mitsuru Ikeda and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> PRICAI-96 Workshop on Knowledge-based InstructionalSystems 

  in an Industrial Setting, pp. 55-66, 1996. <br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kin/kin-pricai95.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kin/kin-pricai95.pdf">article</a>(PDF 

  file, 43 KB)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Comments on &quot;AI Map --- Form and Content ---Invitation to Content-Oriented 

  AI Research ---&quot; and Their Answers<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. Jpn. Soc. for Artificial intelligence, Vol. 11,No. 4, pp. 

  550-565, 1996 (in Japanese).</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Design of a Functional Representation Language FBRLBasen on an 

  Ontology of Function and Behavior<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Munehiko Sasajima, Yoshinobu Kitamura, Mitsuru Ikedaand Riichiro 

  Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. Jpn. Soc. for Artificial intelligence, Vol. 11,No. 3, pp. 

  420-431, 1996 (in Japanese).</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Intelligent Education System : Galileo WhichSupports Scientific 

  Thinking ---Guidance and Modeling Through VerbalIndication of Situation---<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Kumiko Ishino, Katsuo Sugai and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of Jpn. Soc. for Info. and Sys. in Education,Vol. 13, No. 

  1, pp. 19-32, 1996 (in Japanese).</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Modeling Ill-Structured Optimization Tasks ThroughCases<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Kazuo Miyashita, Katia Sycara and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> The International Journal of Decision SupportSystems, Vol. 

  17, pp. 345-364, 1996.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Environment for Building Conceptual Model ofProblem Solving<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Mitsuru Ikeda, Kazuhisa Seta, Osamu Kakusho andRiichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of The Pacific Knowledge Acquisition Workshop(PKAW'96), 

  pp. 210-225, 1996.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Diagnosis based on Fault Event Models<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshinobu Kitamura, Masahiko Ueda, Mitsuru Ikeda andRiichiro 

  Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Working Papers of 7th International Workshop onPrinciples 

  of Diagnosis, pp. 115-122, 1996.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Identification of Ontologies to Reuse Knowledge forSubstation 

  Fault Recovery Support System<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshiyuki Takaoka and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> The International Journal of Decision SupportSystems, Vol. 

  18, pp. 3-21, 1996.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Intelligent Education System which SupportsScientific Thinking 

  : Galileo --- Philosophy and Basic Architecture---<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Kumiko Ishino, Katsuo Sugai and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 1114, 4th Pacific 

  Rim International Conference on Artificial Intelligence(PRICAI'96), pp. 71-84, 

  1996.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Representation Language for Behavior and Function: FBRL<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Munehiko Sasajima, Yoshinobu Kitamura, Mitsuru Ikedaand Riichiro 

  Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Journal of Expert Systems with Applications, Vol.10, No. 3/4, 

  pp. 471-479, 1996.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Method of Qualitative Reasoning for Model-BasedProblem Solving 

  and its Application to a Nuclear Plant<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshinobu Kitamura, Munehiko Sasajima, Mitsuru Ikedaand Riichiro 

  Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Expert Systems With Applications, Vol. 10, No. 3/4,pp. 441-448, 

  1996.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Method of Qualitative Reasoning for Model-BasedProblem Solving 

  and its Application to a Nuclear Plant<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshinobu Kitamura, Munehiko Sasajima, Mitsuru Ikedaand Riichiro 

  Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Expert Systems With Applications, Vol. 10, No. 3/4,pp. 441-448, 

  1996.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Analysis of Representational Design Decisions toCreate Ontologies 

  and Guidelines<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Johan Vanwelkenhuysen and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Journal of Japanese Society for ArtificialIntelligence, Vol. 

  11, No. 2, pp. 310-320, 1996.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Modellizzazione del Comportamento<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Automazione e Strumentazione, pp. 139-146,1996.</p>

<hr />

<a name="1995" id="1995"></a>

<h3><i>1995</i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> FBRL: A Function and Behavior RepresentationLanguage<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Munehiko Sasajima, Yoshinobu Kitamura, Mitsuru Ikeda,and Riichiro 

  Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of IJCAI'95, pp.1830-1836, 1995<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/sasa-ijcai95.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/sasa-ijcai95.ps">article(PS 

  file, 495KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Adaptation of Reusable Knowledge for WorkplaceIntegration<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Vanwelkenhuysen Johan and Mizoguchi Riichiro<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> IJCAI-95 Workshop on Context in Knowledge andReasoning Modeling, 

  Montreal, Queber, Canada, pp.1-11, 1995.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1995.7.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/ps-files/ijcai95.ps">article</a>(PS 

  file, 304686 bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Augmenting Conceptual Software Designs with theirRationales<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Vanwelkenhuysen Johan<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> IEEE Expert (forthcoming)<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1995.1.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/ps-files/ieee-expert.ps">article</a>(PS 

  file, 440642 bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Ontologies and Guidelines for Modeling DigitalSystems<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Vanwelkenhuysen Johan and Mizoguchi Riichiro<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of the Ninth Knowledge Acquisition forKnowledge-Based 

  Systems Workshop, Banff, Canada, Vol.1, pp.4-1-4-20,1995..<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1995.2.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/ps-files/kaw95.1.ps">article</a>(PS 

  file, 446136 bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Embedding Non-Functional Requirements Analyses inConceptual Knowledge 

  System Designs<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Vanwelkenhuysen Johan<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of the Ninth Knowledge Acquisition forKnowledge-Based 

  Systems Workshop, Banff, Canada, Vol.2,pp.45-1-45-15, 1995.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1995.3.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/ps-files/kaw95.2.ps">article</a>(PS 

  file, 317272 bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Workplace-Adapted Behaviors: Lessons Learned for Knowledge Reuse<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Vanwelkenhuysen Johan and Mizoguchi Riichiro<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of the Second International Conferenceon Building 

  and Sharing of Very Large-Scale Knowledge Bases (KB &amp;KS'95), Enschede, The 

  Netherlands, pp.270-280, 1995.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1995.4.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/ps-files/kbks1.ps">article</a>(PS 

  file, 457505 bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Task Ontology for Reuse of Problem Solving Knowledge<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi Riichiro and Vanwelkenhuysen Johan and IkedaMitsuru<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Knowledge Building &amp; Knowledge Sharing 1995(KB&amp;KS'95) 

  (2nd International Conference on Very Large-ScaleKnowledge Bases), Enschede, 

  The Netherlands, pp.46-59.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1995.5.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="./miz/KBKS95.pdf">Article (PDF, 1,063KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Capturing the Problem Solving Context When CreatingOntologies<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Vanwelkenhuysen Johan and Mizoguchi Riichiro<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Japanese Society for Artificial Intelligence,SIG-KBS-9403, 

  pages 33-40, Japan<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1995.6.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/ps-files/jsai-kbs.ps">article</a>(PS 

  file, bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Ontology for Modeling the World from Problem SolvingPerspectives<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi, Mitsuru Ikeda, Kazuhisa Seta andJohan Vanwelkenhuysen<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of IJCAI-95 Workshop on Basic OntologicalIssues in Knowledge 

  Sharing, pp. 1-12, 1995.<br />

  <a href="./miz/IJCAI95WS.pdf">Article (PDF, 911 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Task Analysis Interview Based on Task Ontology<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi, Yuri Tijerino and MitsuruIkeda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Expert Systems With Applications, Vol. 9, No. 1,pp. 15-25, 

  1995.<br />

  <a href="./miz/WSwith_App.pdf">Article (PDF, 759KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Modellizzazione Dell'esperienza<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Automazione e Strumentazione, pp. 83-88, 1995.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Building Reusable Knowledge Bases ---A Study of theSubstation 

  Fault Recovery Problem ---<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yoshiyuki Takaoka, Kenji Hirobe and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. Jpn. Soc. for Artificial intelligence, Vol. 10,No. 5, pp. 

  786-797, 1995 (in Japanese).</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Ontological Issues of CSCL Systems Design<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Mitsuru Ikeda, Heinz Ulrich Hoppe and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of Artificial Intelligence in Education95, pp. 

  242-249, 1995.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Expert Systems Research in Japan<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi and Hiroshi Motoda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> IEEE EXPERT, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 14-23, 1995.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Domain Ontology for Representing Behavior andFunction<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Munehiko Sasajima, Yoshinobu Kitamura, Mitsuru Ikeda,Shinji 

  Yoshikawa, Akira Endou and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of Pacific-Asian Conference on ExpertSystems (PACES'95), 

  pp. 147-154, 1995.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Science of Bug -- Building a Student Model --<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. Jpn. Soc. for Artificial intelligence, Vol. 10,No. 3, pp. 

  348-353, 1995 (in Japanese).</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Analysis of Novices' Conceptual Gap for an ITS forNovice Programmers<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Yu He, Mitsuru Ikeda and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. Jpn. Soc. for Artificial intelligence, Vol. 10,No. 3, pp. 

  436-445, 1995 (in Japanese).</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Generation of Operation Sequences for AccidentRestoration of 

  Primary Substations Based on a Re-usable KnowledgeBase<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Qianren Zhang, Yoshiyuki Takaoka, Morihiro Sakamoto,Kazuaki 

  Kidokoro, Kenji Hirobe and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Artificial Intelligence in Engineering, Vol. 9, No.2, pp. 

  95-105, 1995.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Cooperative Dialog System for Decision Support andIts Response 

  Generation<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Naoki Harada, Keiichi Ishimaru, Akira Nukuzuma,Hiroshi Furukawa, 

  Koichi Yamada and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of FUZZ-IEEE/IFES'95, pp. 825-830, 1995.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Intelligent Educational Systems<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of Info. Processing Soc. J., Vol. 36, No. 2, pp.177-186, 

  1995 (in Japanese).</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Using DRE to Augment Generic Conceptual Design<br />

  <b>Authors: </b>Johan Vanwelkenhuysen<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> IEEE EXPERT, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 50-56, 1995.</p>

<hr />

<a name="1994" id="1994"></a>

<h3><i>1994</i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> Enabling Validation of Knowledge Level Analyses<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Vanwelkenhuysen Johan and Mizoguchi Riichiro<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> AI Technical Report AI-TR-94-9, ISIR, OsakaUniversity, 20 

  pages, Osaka, Japan<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1994.3.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/ps-files/validating-kl-analysis.ps">article</a>(PS 

  file, 433228 bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Inductive Student Modeling Method which Dealswith Student 

  contradictions<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yasuyuki Kono, Mitsuru Ikeda and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> IEICE Trans. on Information and Systems, E77-D,pp.39-48, 1994<br />

  <a href="./miz/IEICE94kono.pdf">Article (PDF, 978 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> FITS: A Framework for ITS -- A Computational Modelof Tutoring<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mitsuru Ikeda and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of AI in Education, Vol. 5, No.3, pp.319-348,1994<br />

<a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1994.4.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="./miz/AIED94Fits.pdf">Article (PDF, 1,605 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> THEMIS: A Nonmonotonic Inductive Student ModelingSystem,<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yasuyuki Kono, Mitsuru Ikeda, and RiichiroMizoguchi:<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of AI in Education, Vol. 5, No.3, pp.371-413,1994.<br />

<a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1994.5.html">Abstract</a> and 

  <a href="./miz/AIED94Themis.pdf">Article (PDF, 2,800 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Investigation on Domain Ontology to RepresentFunctional Models<br />

  <b>Authors:</b> Munehiko SASAJIMA, Yoshinobu KITAMURA, Mitsuru IKEDA,Shinji 

  YOSHIKAWA, Akira ENDOU, and Riichiro MIZOGUCHI<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> In proceedings of the Eighth International Workshopon Qualitative 

  Reasoning QR94, pp.224-233<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/sasa-qr94.html">Abstract</a> 

  and <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/kita/sasa-qr94.ps">article</a> (PS 

  file, 602373 bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Maintaining the Workplace Context in a KnowledgeLevel Analysis<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Vanwelkenhuysen Johan and Mizoguchi Riichiro<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of the Third Japanese KnowledgeAcquisition for 

  Knowledge-Based Systems Workshop '94, Hatoyama,Japan, pp.33-47, 1994.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1994.1.html">Abstract</a>and 

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/ps-files/jkaw94.ps">article</a>(PS 

  file, 363157 bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Current state of the art of knowledge sharing andreuse<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of JSAI, Vol. 9, No. 1, pp.3-9, 1994<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1994.1.html">Abstract</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Functional extension of EBL by introducingcomparison viewpoints<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Katsushi Matsuda, Mitsuru Ikeda, and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of JSAI, Vol. 9, No. 5, pp.755-764, 1994<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1994.2.html">Abstract</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> User's utterance model and cooperative answering forquestion- 

  answering systems<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Koichi Yamada, Riichiro Mizoguchi, and NaokiHarada<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of Information Processing Society of Japan,Vol.35, No.11, 

  pp.2265-2275, 1994<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1994.3.html">Abstract</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Task ontologies for explaining expertise in problemsolving context<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi Riichiro and Vanwelkenhuysen Johan<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> ECAI'94 Workshop on Comparison of ImplementedOntologies, pages 

  163-174, Amsterdam, Netherlands.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/johan_www/publications/abstracts/1994.2.html">Abstract</a>and 

  article (PS file, bytes)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Effort for building a reusable knowledge base --Generating operation 

  sequences for the accident restoration ofprimary substations based on the reusable 

  knowledge base<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Qianren Zhang, Yoshiyuki Takaoka, Morihiro Sakamoto,Kazuhiro 

  Kidokoro, Masayuki, Yamashita, Kenji Hirobe, and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of IEICE, Vol. J77-D-II, No. 5, pp.970-980,1994</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Design of an ITS for Strategic Knowledge in ProvingLogical Formulas<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Koichiro Morihiro, Mitsuru Ikeda and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> IEICE Trans. on Information and Systems, E77-D,pp.98-107, 

  1994</p>

<hr />

<a name="1993" id="1993"></a>

<h3><i>1993</i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> Nonmonotonic Model Inference --A Formalization of Student Modeling<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mitsuru Ikeda, Yasuyuki Kono and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of the 13th International Joint Conference on Artificial 

  Intelligence (IJCAI 93), pp.467-473, 1993<br />

  <a href="./miz/IJCAI93.pdf">Article (PDF, 714 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> MULTIS II : Enabling End-Users to DesignProblem-Solving Engines 

  Via Two-Level Task Ontologies<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yuri Adrian Tijerino and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of EKAW '93, pp. 340-359, 1993<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1993.3.html">Abstract</a> and 

  <a href="./miz/EKAW93multis.pdf">Article (PDF, 1,523 KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Expert Systems and Knowledge Base Technology<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of the International Conference onExpert Systems 

  Technology and Applications, pp.24-42, 1993<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1993.2.html">Abstract</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Knowledge acquisition and ontology<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of KB&amp;KS'93, Tokyo, pp.121-128, 1993<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1993.4.html">Abstract</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Nonmonotonic Student Model Inference System<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro MIZOGUCHI, Mitsuru IKEDA, and YasuyukiKONO<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of ICCE'93, Taipei, pp.55-71, 1993.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1993.5.html">Abstract</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Methodology for Building Expert Systems Based onTask Ontology 

  and Reuse of Knowledge - Underlying Philosophy of aTask Analysis Interview System 

  MULTIS<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yuri Adrian Tijerino, Mitsuru Ikeda, TadahiroKitahashi and Riichiro 

  Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of JSAI, Vol.8, No.4, pp.476-487, 1993 (inJapanese)<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1993.1.html">Abstract</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Efficient Knowledge Management Method forATMS-based Problem 

  Solving -Treatment of Detailed Assumptions andKnowledge Compilation<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Shingo Mishioka, Mitsuru Ikeda, Osamu Kakusho andRiichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of JSAI, Vol.8, No.4, pp.465-475, 1993 (inJapanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Expert Systems and Knowledge Base Technology<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> International Journal of Computer and EngineeringManagement, 

  Vol.1, No. 2., pp.24-39, 1993.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Task Analysis Interview Based on Task Ontology<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi, Yuri Tijerino and MitsuruIkeda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of '93 Korea/Japan Joint Conference on ESs(Seoul, Korea), 

  pp.63-76, 1993</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Towards a Model of Tutor's Decision Making<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Koichiro Morihiro, Yu He, Mitsuru Ikeda and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of Artificial Intelligence inEducation, pp.574-574, 

  1993</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Model of Utterance and Its Use in CooperativeResponse Generation<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Koichi Yamada, Riichiro Mizoguchi, et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of East-West International Conference onHuman-computer 

  Interaction (EWHCI '93), pp.252-264, 1993</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Intention Recognition Based on Normal Use for TopicObject and 

  Generation of Cooperative Responses<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Koichi Yamada, Riichiro Mizoguchi, et al<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of the 5th International Conference onHuman-Computer 

  Interaction jointly with 9th Symposium on HumanInterface(Japan), pp.280-280, 

  1993</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Student Model Building Method based onFormalization of Nonmonotonicity<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yasuyuki Kono, Takeo Tokimori, Mitsuru Ikeda, YasuoNomura and 

  Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of JSAI, Vol.8, No.4, pp.488-498, 1993 (inJapanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Selecting Hints Which Reminds a Student of anAppropriate Strategy 

  in Problem Solving<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Koichiro Morihiro, Yu He, Mitsuru Ikeda and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of the East-West Conference onArtificial Intelligence 

  (EWIC '93), pp.296-300, 1993</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A Modeling Method for Students withContradictions<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yasuyuki Kono, Mitsuru Ikeda and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proceedings of Artificial Intelligence inEducation, 1993 (AI-ED 

  93), pp.481-488, 1993</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Next Utterance Prediction Based on Two Kinds ofDialog Models<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yoichi Yamashita and Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of Eurospeech '93, Berlin, pp.1161-1164,1993</p>

<hr />

<a name="1992" id="1992"></a>

<h3><i>1992</i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> Task Ontology and its Use in a Task AnalysisInterview System 

  --- Two-level Mediating Representation in MULTIS<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi, Yuri Tijerino and MitsuruIkeda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of the 2nd Japanese JKAW '92 (Hatoyama,Japan), pp.185-198, 

  1992.<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1992.2.html">Abstract</a> and 

  <a href="./miz/JKAW92.pdf">Article (PDF, 957KB)</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> FITS: A Generic Framework for ITS -Student modelingand tutoring 

  strategies<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi and Mitsuru Ikeda<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of Expert and Tutoring Systems Conference(Saratov), 

  pp.1-14, 1992<br />

  <a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/miz/1992.1.html">Abstract</a></p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Knowledge compiler II based on domain model andfailure model<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yamaguchi, T., R. Mizoguchi et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of JSAI, Vol.7,No.4, pp.663-674, 1992</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Interview System for Acquiring Design Knowledgebased on Understanding 

  of Example<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Katsushi Matsuda, Hiroshi Niina and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of JSAI, Vol.7, No.6, pp.1038-1048, 1992</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Expert system development in Japan<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> 1st International Conference on ArtificialIntelligence Applications, 

  Cairo, pp.1-17, 1992</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Two-level mediating representation for a taskanalysis interview 

  systems<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi, R. et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of AAAI-92 Workshop on Knowledgerepresentation aspects 

  of Knowledge acquisition, pp.107-114, 1992</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Generation of Operation Sequences for AccidentRestoration of 

  Primary Substations Based on Object Model<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Qianren Zhang, Kazuaki Kidororo, Riichiro Mizoguchi,et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of PRICAI '92 (Seoul, KOREA), pp.328-333,1992</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An Interview System for Acquiring Design Knowledgebased on Understanding 

  of Examples<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Katsushi Matsuda, Hiroshi Niina and RiichiroMizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of PRICAI '92 (Seoul, KOREA), pp.854-860,1992.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Modeling of Materials Design Process<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of Intel. Sympo. on IDSEMS '92, pp.13-16,1992.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Classification of teaching material from the viewpoint of tutoring 

  strategy<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Okuhata, K. et al<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of IEICE, Vol.J75-A, No.2, pp.305-313, 1992 (inJapanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> FITS: A generic framework for ITS<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Ikeda, M. et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of IEICE, Vol.J75-A, No.2, pp.314-322, 1992 (inJapanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> To contradict is human<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Kono, Y., M.Ikeda and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of International Conference on IntelligentTutoring Systems: 

  ITS'92, Montreal, pp.451-458, 1992</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Brief Survey of Japanese ITS Research<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Riichiro Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of East-West Conference on Emerging ComputerTechnologies 

  in Education (Moscow), pp.220-225, 1992</p>

<hr />

<a name="1991" id="1991"></a>

<h3><i>1991</i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> Knowledge acquisition for knowledge-basedsystems<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Motoda H., Mizoguchi R., et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> IEEE EXPERT, Vol.6, No.4, pp.53-64, 1991</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Interview-based knowledge acquisition using dynamicanalysis<br />

  <b>Author: Kawaguchi</b> A.,Motoda H., and Mizoguchi R.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> IEEE EXPERT, Vol.6, No. 5, pp.47-60, 1991</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Knowledge acquisition systems<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of JSAI, Vol.4, No.4, pp.411-420, 1988(inJapanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> MULTIS:A knowledge acquisition system based onproblem-solving 

  primitives<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Tijerino, Y., T.Kitahashi and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of 6th KAW, Banff, pp.32-1 - 32-20, 1991.</p>

<hr />

<a name="1985" id="1985"></a>

<h3><i>1985 - 1990</i></h3>

<p><b>Title:</b> Recent trends of expert system research<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi Riichiro<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Trans. of Information Processing, Vol.28, No.2,pp.207-217, 

  1987(in Japanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Basic design of knowledge compiler based on deepknowledge<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yamaguchi T, Mizoguchi R., et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of Japanese Society for AI(JSAI), Vol.2, No.3,pp.333-340, 

  1987(in Japanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Explanation facilities for novice users based ondeep knowledge<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Yamaguchi T, Mizoguchi R., et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Trans. of Institute of Electronic, Information andCommunication 

  Engineers(IEICE), Vol.J70-D, No.11, pp.2083-2088,1987(in Japanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Interactive synthesis of conceptual schema based onqueries -- 

  Toward an expert system of relational database design<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi Riichiro et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of Information Processing, Vol.8, No.3,pp.207-216, 1985</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An architecture for knowledge acquisition byinterview<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Kawaguchi, A. H. Motoda and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of Japanese Knowledge Acquisition forKnowledge-based 

  Systems Workshop(JKAW90), Kyoto, pp.81-96, 1990.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> ISAK: Interview system for acquiring designknowledge --A unified 

  architecture of interview systems usingexamples<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi, R. et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of JKAW90, Kyoto, pp.277-286, 1990.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A task analysis interview system that uses aproblem-solving model<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Tijerino, Y., T. Kitahashi and R. Mizoguchi<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of JKAW90, Kyoto, pp.331-344, 1990.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A generic framework for ITS and its evaluation<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi, R. et al<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of IFIP TC3 International Conference on ARCE,Tokyo, 

  pp.303-312, 1990.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> SIS: A shell for interview systems<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Kawaguchi, A., R. Mizoguchi et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of IJCAI'87, Vol.1, Milan, pp.359-361,1987.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An intelligent interview systems for conceptualdesign of database<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Kawaguchi, A., N.Taoka, R. Mizoguchi, M.Yanagida andO.Kakusho<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of ECAI, Vol.2, Brighton, pp.39-45, 1986.</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Intelligent tutoring system -- Current state of theart<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi, R.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of IEICE, Vol.E73, No.7, pp.297-307, 1990 (inJapanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A hypothetical model inference system<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Ikeda, M., R. Mizoguchi, et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Trans. on IEICE, Vol.J71-D, No.9, pp.1761-1771,1988(in Japanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> A framework for ICAI systems based on inductiveinference and 

  logic programming<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Kawai K, Mizoguchi R., et al.<br />

  <b>Reference: New</b> Generation Computing, Vol. 5, pp.115-129,1987</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> Knowledge engineering and ICAI<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi Riichiro et al.<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> J. of Japan Society for CAI, Vol.4,No.4, pp.13-24,1986(in 

  Japanese)</p>

<p><b>Title:</b> An innovative framework for intelligent tutoringsystems<br />

  <b>Author:</b> Mizoguchi, R. et al<br />

  <b>Reference:</b> Proc. of the IFIP TC3 Working Conference onArtificial Intelligence 

  Tools in Education, Frascati, pp.105-120,1988.</p>

<hr />

<h2>SPOKEN LANGUAGE PROCESSING</h2>

<p><a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/yama/publications.html#1995"><b>1995</b></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/yama/publications.html#1994"><b>1994</b></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/yama/publications.html#1993"><b>1993</b></a></p>

<p><a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/pub/yama/publications.html#1992"><b>1992</b></a><b>&nbsp;</b>&nbsp;</p>

<hr />

<p><a href="http://www.ei.sanken.osaka-u.ac.jp/"><b>MizLab Homepage</b></a></p>

</body></html>

